Informal mails:
to friends (Only)
Start with "Dear Paul," (choose anynames)

Formal mails:
business, boss
Start with "Dear Sir or Madam,"

emails 160 ~ 200 words.

Priority: 
1. Write a letter with great quality. 
2. 40 ~ 60 words are appropriate for a paragraph to cover each bullet point.

1. The first paragraph: Write your email intention (purpose) by looking at the first 
sentence or the first paragraph of the problem. Paraphrase the question only.
2. The second and the following paragraphs: Write about the each bullet point 
given in the exam with around 40 ~ 60 words by adding details about the bullet point.
3. Sign off at the end of the email, like "Yours faithfully," (formal) or "All the 
best," (informal) and the name of the writer "Jeff Ho" (formal) or "Jeff" (informal) 
in the next line.



Formal letter example:
You recently missed a flight. You think this was the fault of the airline.

Write a letter to the airline. In your letter

. explain why you believe the airline was at fault
. describe the impact this had on your journey
. say what you want the airline to do

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

Begin your letter as follows:

Dear Sir or Madam,


* A formal way to begin any letter: I am writing regarding [fact] because [reason].

Dear Sir or Madam,

I am writing regarding a flight I missed with your airline because I believe your 
staff's negligence should be addressed.

I checked in to your Business Class Lounge 1 hour before departure, and the 
receptionist assured me that she would tell me when the aircraft was boarding.
Unfortunately, despite being told of a delay of at least half an hour, it departed 
on time while I was still in the lounge.

When I went to the gate, I was shouted at by the gate staff for missing my flight, 
and they threatened to call the police and have me arrested. They removed my bag 
from the plane and excorted me out of the airport. I had to rebook my trip at great
expense and missed an important meeting.

I recommend that you display accurate information on the screens in your facilities
and train your team not to blame their errors on your customers. I accept that 
everyone can make mistakes, but law enforcement officers should only be called in 
extreme circumstances, not because your employees cannot admit they are wrong.

Yours faithfully,
Jeff Ho.




Informal letter example:
You recently agreed to meet a friend but missed the meeting.

Write an email to your friend. In your email

. explain why you missed the meeting
. describe the impact this had on your day
. suggest how you can meet up in the future

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

Begin your email as follows:

Dear ......,

* Choose any name you like.
* More contractions, just like how you speak to people, e.g. I'm, she'd.
* Better to use more phrasal verbs, slangs, colloquialisms and other idiomatic 
  language, e.g. messed up, give me a shout = let me know. This can only be improved
  by listening how native English speakers actually speak.
* Formal words are not words that are high-level, few people are actually used, some 
  formal words can only be used in an informal email such as "Alas", since this kind
  of words would sound rude in a formal email. "Alas" sound a little bit funny. It 
  expresses unfortunately in a more humorous way.
* A formal way to begin informal letter: I'm writing to let you know [fact] because [reason].


I'm writing to let you know I missed my flight because the airline's staff messed up.

I checked in to the Business Class Lounge 1 hour before departure, and the receptionist
told me she'd give me a shout when the aircraft was boarding. Alas, even though they'd
told me I could chill out for half an hour, it left on time while I was still in the 
lounge.

When I went to the gate, I was shouted at by the gate staff for missing the flight, and 
they threatened to call the cops and have me thrown in the slammer. They removed my bag 
from the plane and chucked me out of the airport. I had to rebook my trip, which cost
an arm and a leg, and missed our catch-up.

Why don't we take a rain check [means postpone] and meet up when you're home for Xmas?
What about Boxing Day [the day after the 25th Christmas] for the footy [football]? I'll
make it up to you [do sth to resolve a problem] by getting the first round in. I'm sorry
about all this; we all make mistakes, don't we?

All the best,
Jeff

The activity sentence in the last paragraph can also be like this: Let's go around to 
your house and we'll play the latest computer games. / do sports / cook foods.